NITORING
a. node level metrics, the number of nodes in the cluster, how many of those
are healthy.
b. Performance metrics such as CPU, memory, network and disc utilization.
c. Pod level metrics such as performance of pods number of pods, CPU, Memory consumption
we need something to monitor them, store them and provide analytics around this data.
d. metric server, prometheus, elastic stack, Data dog, dynatrace

METRICS SERVER AND HEAPSTER (DEPRECATED)
one metric server per cluster.
in-memory monitoring solution, does not store data on the disc
- Kubelet: receives instruction from kubernetes api server. runs pods on the nodes.
-Kubelet also has containerAdvisor (CAdvisor) which receives performance metrics from pods and exposing
them through the kubelet api to meet the metrics available for the metric server.
minikube addons enable metrics-server
git clone https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/metrics-server.git
kubectl create -f deploy /1.8

kubectl top node
kubectl top pod

1. we have deployed a few PODS running workloads. Inspect them. want for the pods to be ready
before proceeding to the next question.
solution
k get pods

2. let us deploy metrics-server to monitor the PODS and nodes. pull the git repository for the deployment files
solution
cd kubernetes-metrics-server/

3. Deploy the metrics-server by creating all the components downloaded. Run 
k create -f

4. it takes a few minutes for the metrics server to start gathering data. run the 
k top node
comment and wait for a valid output 
k top pod

5. identify the node that consumes the most CPU
solution
k top node 
Ans = Controlplane

6. Identify the  pod that consumes the most Memory
k top pod
Ans=Rabbit

8. identify the pod that consumes the least CPU
ans=Lion

LABELS AND SELECTORS
Labels and selectors allows us to group things together

1. we have deployed a number of PODS. they are labelled with tier.env and bu. 
how many PODS exist in the dev environment? use the selectors to filter the output.
solution
k get pods
k get pods --selector env=dev
OR
k get pods --selector env=dev | wc -l
k get pods --selector env=dev --no-headers
k get pods --selector env=dev --no headers | wc -l
Ans=7

2. How many PODS are in the finance business unit
solution
kubectl get pods --selector bu=finance --no-header | wc -l
Ans=6

3. How many objects are in the prod environment including PODS, Replicasets and any othe objects?
solution
k get pods --selector env=prod --no-headers
k get all --selector env=prod --no-headers 
k get all --selector env=prod --no-headers | wc -l

4. identify the POD which is part of the prod environment, the finance Bu and of frontend tier?
solution
kubectl get all --selector env=prod, bu=finance, tier=frontend

5. A replicaset definition file is given replicaset-definition-1.yaml. try to create the replicaset. there 
is an issue with the file. try to fix it.
solution
cat replicaset-definition-1.yaml
k create -f replicaset-definition-1.yaml
selector label does not match template label
vi replicaset-definition-1.yaml
k create -f replicaset-definition-1.yaml
k get rs



